# Edge Fields
Edge field definitions add graph DB edges to Django models in ArangoDB.
See edges.py for implementation of the edge fields.


# General Description of Edge Fields
    The EdgeField class implements the "Edge" Field definition for Django model classes.  The Edge field definition is used to add edge objects to Django models.  This in turn creates vertices and edges within the graph database backend for Django.  This is implemented for ArangoDB only.  The EdgeField class does not currently support other graph DB backends.

    There is no explicit field to support ArangoDB 'vertex' objects in Djarango.  Instead, every Django model in Djarango is implicitly an ArangoDB vertex.  In ArangoDB, everything is stored as a document at the lowest level.  Other ArangoDB storage paradigms are built on top of documents.  The Djarango integration stores all models as documents in ADB, so by default they are also candidates to be vertices.  When an edge field is added to any model, the model is then treated as a vertex.  In the ArangoDB backend, the collection for that model becomes a vertex collection, and an edge collection is created for the edge field that has been added to the model.  A graph is also created for the model and edge collections, and they are also added to the graph.  By convention, Djarango generates a name for the graph based on the model that contains the edge fields.  This may be overridden by setting 'graph_name' in the edge field definition.  Multiple edge definitions may be added to the same graph.

    Djarango only allows 'outbound' edge fields.  An inbound edge is created by default on the model specified as the other end of the edge.  Bidirectional edges may be created by adding edge fields to both models and specifying the same edge name.

    Edge definitions are identified by name, and each edge definition name within a model must be unique.

    There is no direct example in Django documentation to create this type of Field definition.  It is probably closest to the ManyToManyField, but does not require actual creation of a 'through' table.

    In the general case, each model field maps to a DB column type.  The edge field case is a bit different, in that the field does not directly map to a single column.  Instead, the edge field definition triggers the creation of an edge collection (effectively a new table), that includes the Model collection as either a source or target vertex collection (or both).  The edge collection is created with from_ and to_ attributes, as are all ArangoDB edge collections.

    Djarango does not support explicit creation of 'graph' models; they are only created implicitly via the edge field definition.  Djarango does provide utilities for querying and displaying all graphs that have been generated by the addition of edge fields to various models.

    Each edge field added to a model class definition must specify the model (vertex collection) on the other end of the edge; a.k.a., the 'target'.

    Djarango only allows outbound edges.  Inbound edges by definition are the other end of an outbound edge definition.  This avoids the possibility of mis-matched inbound/outbound/both edge definitions.

    >>> What I think the EdgeField() needs to do:
    - migration
      > A model with edge fields should result in the generation of all the
        relevant collections (tables) when migration runs.  Includes:
        . Edge collection definition
        . Source vertex collection -- just the normal model table/collection
        . Target vertex collection -- just the normal model table/collection

      > The edge collection should have source and target vertex collections
        specified as src/dst models
        . Example:
            {            '_key': 'g_general_javamatan',
                          '_id': '_graphs/g_general_javamatan',
                         '_rev': '_dBzWpT----',
              'edgeDefinitions': [ { 'collection': 'ged_general_javamatan',
                                           'from': ['gv_general_javamatan'],
                                             'to': ['gv_general_javamatan']}
                                 ],
            'orphanCollections': ['gvtx_general_javamatan'] # not essential
            }

        . Summary of contents:
            1)  name of the graph
            2)  list of edge definitions
            3)  orphan collections # not essential

        . Summary of what should be generated by migration
            1)  An edge definition based on the model with the edge field and
                the model specified as the target model.
                -- collection name for the edge collection
                -- list of 'from' vertex collections; if this is the first time
                   the edge definition has been used, it will create the first
                   vertex collection in the list
                -- list of 'to' vertex collections; same as point (2) above

            2)  A graph definition containing the edge definition.  If a name is
                given for the graph, then use that name, and add the ED to the
                graph if it already exists.  If no graph name is given, generate
                a default graph name.

            ED parameters
            1)  Other end model name - mandatory - must correspond to a real
                Django model (lazy binding allowed)
            2)  An edge definition name - optional.  If no name is given,
                generate a default name.
            3)  A graph name - optional


      > The name of the edge collection should be generated automatically, unless specified by the user, via 'edge_name' keyword.  If 'edge_name' is used, then use that name.
      > self-referential edges should not be allowed

    - Writing data with edges
      > when actual models (vertices) are connected it should create new records in the edge collection
      > when a specific instance of a dst model is added to a specific instance of the src model and save()'d, the edge collection should be updated with a new record (with each instance of the relevant models on each end of the record).
    - reading
      > when the edge field is referenced, it should read the far end of the edge.
      > there should be accessors for the edge model and the far end model.

    - querying
      > The primary value of adding graph models as a backend DB is to support graph DB algorithms for queries and processing (e.g., ML to identify networks and patterns).
      > query sets need to be extended to support this approach

    NOTES ON MAKEMIGRATIONS
    - autodetector.py does primary work of detecting new/deleted models and model changes
    - models with a FK relationship have a 'remote_field' attribute that holds info about the FK target.


